 I read the other day some verses written by an eminent painter which were
 original and not conventional. The soul always hears an admonition in such
 lines, let the subject be what it may. The sentiment they instil is of more
 value than any thought they may contain. To believe your own thought, to
 believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men, —
 that is genius. Speak your latent conviction, and it shall be the universal
 sense; for the inmost in due time becomes the outmost,—— and our first thought
 is rendered back to us by the trumpets of the Last Judgment. Familiar as the
 voice of the mind is to each, the highest merit we ascribe to Moses, Plato, and
 Milton is, that they set at naught books and traditions, and spoke not what men
 but what they thought. A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of
 light which flashes across his mind from within, more than the lustre of the
 firmament of bards and sages. Yet he dismisses without notice his thought,
 because it is his. In every work of genius we recognize our own rejected
 thoughts: they come back to us with a certain alienated majesty. Great works of
 art have no more affecting lesson for us than this. They teach us to abide by
 our spontaneous impression with good-humored inflexibility then most when the
 whole cry of voices is on the other side. Else, to-morrow a stranger will say
 with masterly good sense precisely what we have thought and felt all the time,
 and we shall be forced to take with shame our own opinion from another.

 There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that
 envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he must take himself for
 better, for worse, as his portion; that though the wide universe is full of
 good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come to him but through his toil
 bestowed on that plot of ground which is given to him to till. The power which
 resides in him is new in nature, and none but he knows what that is which he
 can do, nor does he know until he has tried. Not for nothing one face, one
 character, one fact, makes much impression on him, and another none. This
 sculpture in the memory is not without preestablished harmony. The eye was
 placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify of that particular ray.
 We but half express ourselves, and are ashamed of that divine idea which each
 of us represents. It may be safely trusted as proportionate and of good issues,
 so it be faithfully imparted, but God will not have his work made manifest by
 cowards. A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and
 done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise, shall give him no peace.
 It is a deliverance which does not deliver. In the attempt his genius deserts
 him; no muse befriends; no invention, no hope.
 
 Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string. Accept the place the
 divine providence has found for you, the society of your contemporaries, the
 connection of events. Great men have always done so, and confided themselves
 childlike to the genius of their age, betraying their perception that the
 absolutely trustworthy was seated at their heart, working through their hands,
 predominating in all their being. And we are now men, and must accept in the
 highest mind the same transcendent destiny; and not minors and invalids in a
 protected corner, not cowards fleeing before a revolution, but guides,
 redeemers, and benefactors, obeying the Almighty effort, and advancing on Chaos
 and the Dark.
 
 What pretty oracles nature yields us on this text, in the face and behaviour of
 children, babes, and even brutes! That divided and rebel mind, that distrust of
 a sentiment because our arithmetic has computed the strength and means opposed
 to our purpose, these have not. Their mind being whole, their eye is as yet
 unconquered, and when we look in their faces, we are disconcerted. Infancy
 conforms to nobody: all conform to it, so that one babe commonly makes four or
 five out of the adults who prattle and play to it. So God has armed youth and
 puberty and manhood no less with its own piquancy and charm, and made it
 enviable and gracious and its claims not to be put by, if it will stand by
 itself. Do not think the youth has no force, because he cannot speak to you and
 me. Hark! in the next room his voice is sufficiently clear and emphatic. It
 seems he knows how to speak to his contemporaries. Bashful or bold, then, he
 will know how to make us seniors very unnecessary.
 
 The nonchalance of boys who are sure of a dinner, and would disdain as much as
 a lord to do or say aught to conciliate one, is the healthy attitude of human
 nature. A boy is in the parlour what the pit is in the playhouse; independent,
 irresponsible, looking out from his corner on such people and facts as pass by,
 he tries and sentences them on their merits, in the swift, summary way of boys,
 as good, bad, interesting, silly, eloquent, troublesome. He cumbers himself
 never about consequences, about interests: he gives an independent, genuine
 verdict. You must court him: he does not court you. But the man is, as it were,
 clapped into jail by his consciousness. As soon as he has once acted or spoken
 with eclat, he is a committed person, watched by the sympathy or the hatred of
 hundreds, whose affections must now enter into his account. There is no Lethe
 for this. Ah, that he could pass again into his neutrality! Who can thus avoid
     all pledges, and having observed, observe again from the same unaffected,
     unbiased, unbribable, unaffrighted innocence, must always be formidable. He
     would utter opinions on all passing affairs, which being seen to be not
     private, but necessary, would sink like darts into the ear of men, and put
     them in fear.
     
     These are the voices which we hear in solitude, but they grow faint and
     inaudible as we enter into the world. Society everywhere is in conspiracy
     against the manhood of every one of its members. Society is a joint-stock
     company, in which the members agree, for the better securing of his bread
     to each shareholder, to surrender the liberty and culture of the eater. The
     virtue in most request is conformity. Self-reliance is its aversion. It
     loves not realities and creators, but names and customs.
     Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist. He who would gather immortal
     palms must not be hindered by the name of goodness, but must explore if it
     be goodness. Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind.
     Absolve you to yourself, and you shall have the suffrage of the world. I
     remember an answer which when quite young I was prompted to make to a
     valued adviser, who was wont to importune me with the dear old doctrines of
     the church. On my saying, What have I to do with the sacredness of
     traditions, if I live wholly from within? my friend suggested, — "But these
     impulses may be from below, not from above." I replied, "They do not seem
     to me to be such; but if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the
     Devil." No law can be sacred to me but that of my nature. Good and bad are
     but names very readily transferable to that or this; the only right is what
     is after my constitution, the only wrong what is against it. A man is to
     carry himself in the presence of all opposition, as if every thing were
     titular and ephemeral but he. I am ashamed to think how easily we
     capitulate to badges and names, to large societies and dead institutions.
     Every decent and well-spoken individual affects and sways me more than is
     right. I ought to go upright and vital, and speak the rude truth in all
     ways. If malice and vanity wear the coat of philanthropy, shall that pass?
     If an angry bigot assumes this bountiful cause of Abolition, and comes to
     me with his last news from Barbadoes, why should I not say to him, 'Go love
     thy infant; love thy wood-chopper: be good-natured and modest: have that
     grace; and never varnish your hard, uncharitable ambition with this
     incredible tenderness for black folk a thousand miles off. Thy love afar is
     spite at home.' Rough and graceless would be such greeting, but truth is
     handsomer than the affectation of love. Your goodness must have some edge
     to it, — else it is none. The doctrine of hatred must be preached as the
     counteraction of the doctrine of love when that pules and whines. I shun
     father and mother and wife and brother, when my genius calls me. I would
     write on the lintels of the door-post, Whim. I hope it is somewhat better
     than whim at last, but we cannot spend the day in explanation. Expect me
     not to show cause why I seek or why I exclude company. Then, again, do not
     tell me, as a good man did to-day, of my obligation to put all poor men in
     good situations. Are they my poor? I tell thee, thou foolish
     philanthropist, that I grudge the dollar, the dime, the cent, I give to
     such men as do not belong to me and to whom I do not belong. There is a
     class of persons to whom by all spiritual affinity I am bought and sold;
     for them I will go to prison, if need be; but your miscellaneous popular
         charities; the education at college of fools; the building of
         meeting-houses to the vain end to which many now stand; alms to sots;
         and the thousandfold Relief Societies; — though I confess with shame I
         sometimes succumb and give the dollar, it is a wicked dollar which by
         and by I shall have the manhood to withhold.
         
         Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception than the
         rule. There is the man and his virtues. Men do what is called a good
         action, as some piece of courage or charity, much as they would pay a
         fine in expiation of daily non-appearance on parade. Their works are
         done as an apology or extenuation of their living in the world, — as
         invalids and the insane pay a high board. Their virtues are penances. I
         do not wish to expiate, but to live. My life is for itself and not for
             a spectacle. I much prefer that it should be of a lower strain, so
             it be genuine and equal, than that it should be glittering and
             unsteady. I wish it to be sound and sweet, and not to need diet and
             bleeding. I ask primary evidence that you are a man, and refuse
             this appeal from the man to his actions. I know that for myself it
             makes no difference whether I do or forbear those actions which are
             reckoned excellent. I cannot consent to pay for a privilege where I
             have intrinsic right. Few and mean as my gifts may be, I actually
             am, and do not need for my own assurance or the assurance of my
             fellows any secondary testimony.
             
             What I must do is all that concerns me, not what the people think.
             This rule, equally arduous in actual and in intellectual life, may
             serve for the whole distinction between greatness and meanness. It
             is the harder, because you will always find those who think they
             know what is your duty better than you know it. It is easy in the
             world to live after the world's opinion; it is easy in solitude to
             live after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the
             crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.
